#summary Install the Google Enterprise Connector for Lotus Notes

= Introduction =
The *Google Enterprise Connector For Lotus Notes* is installed entirely on your Domino infrastructure. 

You should install the connector to a domino server to which you have administrative access.


==Installation instructions==
You will need to complete the following tasks to install the connector.

===Install Dependent Java Libraries===
The Connector uses the Jakarta Commons HttpClient software to post content to the GSA so before any feeding can begin, these files must be copied to your Domino Server.

1. Download the Commons clients from the [http://hc.apache.org/httpclient-3.x/ Jakarta HTTP Client home page]. 

You will need the following jars:
 * commons-codec-1.3.jar
 * commons-httpclient-3.0.jar
 * commons-logging.jar

2. Copy them to your Domino Server's external Java classes’ folder. On a Microsoft Windows platform, this folder is the *“jvm\lib\ext”* folder, which is located beneath the Domino program folder. For example: If you install Domino to *“C:\Lotus\Domino”*, you would copy your jar files to: *“C:\Lotus\Domino\jvm\lib\ext”*.

3. Update the security restrictions in the server’s *“java.policy”* file. This file is located beneath the Domino program folder in the *“jvm\lib\security”* folder. Edit the file and add the following permission line between the braces where other permissions are granted.

{{{
permission java.util.PropertyPermission "org.apache.commons.logging.simplelog.defaultlog", "write";
}}}

===Configure Notes Agents===
The crawl and feed processes run as agents inside the Connector database. To ensure that the agents can complete without being prematurely terminated by the server’s agent manager, you should increase the *“Max LotusScript/Java execution time”* daytime and nighttime parameters for any server that will be taking part in the crawl and feed process. 

Increase the setting in your Domino server document to 360 minutes. This setting can be found in your server document in the *“Agent Manager”* subsection under *“Server tasks”*. The screenshot below shows the *“Agent Manager”* tab in sample server document.

[https://google-enterprise-connector-notes.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/res/Agent Settings.png]
